The token has a few things.
There's an access token,
there's an expiration date, and
there's a refresh token.
And these are what we actually
use to decide whether or
not somebody is able to log into our app.
So if I take this access token,
this is what's called
the JSON Web Token or a JWT and
if we head over to jwt.io,
this is a really cool thing provided
by Auth0 that lets us debug a JWT.
So I can just copy paste it in here and
it shows us here's
the header which is like what
kind of JSON Web Token it is.
This is the body of the token
which is what's actually in it and
then this is the signature.
And so in order to validate this,
we need to have a secret,
a kind of like a passphrase for
JSON Web Tokens.
And that's what the apps that use
this identity share to say that like,
yes, this is in fact
a valid JSON Web Token and
not somebody just spoofing it and
sending it over to me.
We aren't going to worry about that
here because Netlify Identity is
going to handle all of that validation for
us.
But if you want to dig deeper into that,
there are really good resources on the
Auth0 website on octaves documentation.
You can dig into the OAuth Doc's jwt.io
is going to take you through a bunch
of information about that.
But what we can see here if we
look at the payload of this JWT,
is that we have our expiration date.
We have our subscriber ID.
So this is our Netlify user ID.
We have our email address, and then we
have app metadata and user metadata.
And so this is what tells us that
we have an actual user like we know
that we've got a user.
The user's token is valid for this long
and this is what we know about this user.
So what we want to do is we ultimately
want to include a role on this which will
go into app metadata because remember
the only way that we can affect app
metadata is through the app,
the users can't control that.
And that's important because we
don't want someone to say, hey,
I'm an admin when they're not.
They can't update this data
cuz they could say like,
I'm Frank when I am actually Jason.
And that's not a huge risk to us,
that just changes what the UI says,
it'll greet the wrong person.
But if I could go in and change this and
give myself admin permissions and stuff,
that would be a problem.
So we need to make sure that
that is not possible and
that's what app metadata allows us to do.
So now that we've got this user,
we are looking at our login page,
and we have the option to log out.
So if I log out, it pops open
the thing and I have to log out.
I don't love that experience, so
I actually want to change it.
So what I want is when I log in,
I want to get logged in.
And then I want this to bounce
me over to the admin page so
that I can just immediately
start adding movies.
And we'll just add a logout button to that
admin page that will instantly log me out
instead of this experience where I have to
pop open the the widget and then close it.
So let's build that part first.
Let's go into our code and
we're gonna add some
some script here, so
add a new script tag, and
we're going to add a function
called handle login.
And that's going to get a user object,
and what we want to do is we
want to check if there's not a current
user or if that user doesn't have a token.
Then we want to return because that
means that we should be on this
page if there is no
currently logged in user.
We are where we're supposed
to be on the login page.
However, if we do have an active
user if somebody is logged in,
if we get here,
it means someone is logged in.
So then we want to send them
to the admin page instead.
So let's change
the window.location.pathname to be admin.
Then we're going to get
two events that happen.
So what happens when you import
Netlify identity widget is you get
an object attached to the window
called Netlify identity and so we
can get this with window.netlifyIdentity
and then I want to add a listener.
So on the init event,
I want to check if someone's
logged in, and also on the login event so
when I actually run the login function.
So this one fires when the page
loads when we initially navigate to
the /login page, we wanna check
if somebody already logged in.
So if I have this bookmarked and I close
my browser and then I renavigate to this
later and I'm still an active user, I just
want to get redirected to the admin page.
I don't wanna have to go
through a login flow.
And then when I do go through the login
flow, that's when login fires and
we want to get redirected once
we're done to the admin page.
So we can see how this works by going
back out here, and it already happened.
You can see that when the page refreshed,
it bumped us.
So let's go to /login and I am logged in.
Cool, took me to admin.
It's behaving as intended.
So the next thing that we want to do is
let's head over to our admin page and
let's get this thing set up
to send us to login if we're
not logged in and
give us the ability to log out.
So here's my admin page.
I'm going to close that sidebar so
we can see what's going on.
And I'm just going to drop
a logout right above the h1.
I'm not going to worry too
much about how this looks,
I just want the ability to do it.
So I just added a little bit of style
to this that's already defined so
that it kind of sits at the top and
isn't like off to the far left.
So if we save that and
we go look at our admin page,
now we've got a logout button,
that needs to let us log out.
So we'll do that by let's see,
we've already included
the Netlify identity widget.
So the next thing that
we wanna do is let's add
a function handleIdentityEvent and
that's going to get the user object,
right?
And inside of this,
we want to check if there is a user, and
that user has a token,
then we want to do nothing.
So this is the opposite of the last time
that we wrote this because in this case if
you're on the admin page, if you
are an active user if you are logged in,
we wanna keep you here so
we can skip the rest of this logic.
However, if you're not,
we're going to bounce you out
window.location.pathname to
the login page, okay?
So we've got that now we
just need to fire it.
So we're going to do that same
thing window.netlifyIdentity.on and
we'll run this on in it.
HandleIdentityEvent and
we'll run it on the logout event.
Okay, so what we're doing now is we
are saying that if you are not logged in,
we want you to get redirected
to the login page.
So we can check this.
Let's go to, now let's hook up
the login because otherwise we're
gonna have to do some some hacky stuff.
So let's hook up this logout button and
what we're going to do to hook it up is
we're just going to grab that
document.query selector,
we will grab the logout button which
had a class of logout, remember and
we're going to add an event listener for
the click.
When you click it,
we're going to take that event and
we will event.preventDefault, because
this link needs to perform an action.
Come to think of it this probably
should have been a button
because it's not a link.
It's a button.
But we're gonna rather than
refactoring this on the fly,
we're gonna stick with the way
that I wrote this function.
Functionally, these would be the same,
the button would just be,
instead of being an anchor link,
it would be a button.
But I don't want to
restyle things right now.
So let's just roll.
So what we gonna do is we gonna listen for
a click on this logout and
we are going to then going to fire
the logout function of nullify identity.
And now when I come out here,
I should be able to click this and
what should happen assuming
that I didn't type or
anything is when I click this link,
it is going to log me out, which will
trigger the handle identity event function
which will redirect us to the login page.
So let's give it a shot.
There we go, we're at login, okay.
And now if I try to go back to admin,
it redirects me to login, right?
And so you can see here, this does give
us a brief moment of the admin page and
there is an issue where
if we were to do this,
you could disable JavaScript and
get to that admin page.
It wouldn't help you in the case of this
app because you need JavaScript to submit
the form.
So it saves us in that regard.
But in a more production app,
you would probably want to add something
like role based access control, which is
where you're checking for the cookie or
you could do redirects
based on who's logged in.
There are a lot of ways to handle
this again, this isn't a strictly
like authentication workshop so we're
kind of sticking to the high level here.
But the general rules apply.
And really what we care about is sending
in this authentication token to our
serverless function which
is what we'll get to next.
So now that I'm able to
log in [SOUND] I get
redirected to our admin page and
now I would be able to submit a movie.